docs: how to release (#1366)
sbb-design-systems/sbb-angular: RELEASE.md

# How to create a new release

This document describes how to create a new release of SBB Angular.

## Preparation

### Major release preparation

- Update Angular packages to align with new angular major version.
- Update ng-update schematics.
- Update stackblitz assets.
- Check TODOs, @breaking-change annotations and @deprecation annotations.

> - Check angular components commits to be considered for next major release on https://github.com/sbb-design-systems/sbb-angular/issues/1047.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Check angular components commits to be considered for next major release in the [sync issue](https://github.com/sbb-design-systems/sbb-angular/issues/1047).
```

- Create new route for previous release (e.g. angular-v13.app.sbb.ch) and deploy corresponding version.
- Github maintenance workflow
  - Create new maintenance branch (e.g. 14.x).

>   - Create [branch protection rules](https://github.com/sbb-design-systems/sbb-angular/settings/branches) for the newly created branch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

  - Edit TARGET_RELEASE in `.github/workflows/maintenance-tagging-workflow.yml`.
  - Edit `baseBranches` property in `renovate.json` to activate renovate on new branch.

## Release preparation

The following steps create a release tag and generate a changelog:

1. Check out the `master` or your desired release branch and ensure it's up-to-date.
2. Run `yarn release` to create a tag and to generate the changelog.
3. Check if the automatically updated `CHANGELOG.md` file contains all the information relevant for
   the release. If everything worked well, continue with step 7.
4. If necessary, update the `CHANGELOG.md` file. Afterwards, delete the tag created in step 3, e.g.
   by running `git tag -d x.y.z`.
5. Amend the modified `CHANGELOG.md` to the release commit by running
   `git add CHANGELOG.md && git commit --amend`)

> 6. Recreate the release tag: `git tag x.y.z`.

Reviewer: Instead of changing the release commit, should we maybe just create a new `docs: adapt changelog` commit?
@mhaertwig, @jeripeierSBB Thoughts?

Reviewer 2: but then this commit is after the tagged commit although it belongs somehow to the state of the tag in my opinion.

Reviewer: That's fair.
